# Chatbot project description
My project is a chatbot that would be used in a mechanic shop. For this project, I used Mr. Tire. I used Python and Flask-SQLAlchemy to create an API. An API is an application programming interface, and it is a computer program which is used by a computer program to access data from another source. In the example of my project, the actual chatbot uses the API to access a PostgreSQL database which I created to store information about various products and services that would be offered by the mechanic shop. Flask is a Python module that can be used to create web pages or APIs. SQLAlchemy is a different Python module which allows users to execute SQL queries through a Python program. Flask-SQLAlchemy is another module which allows users to use both Flask and SQLAlchemy, which can be very useful for an API.
I used Botpress to build the actual chatbot. Botpress is a program that allows users to create chatbots to interact with people. The chatbots can do various tasks such as talk to the person, ask for information, store data in variables, run JavaScript programs, and make calls to APIs to gather more information. I used all of these features of Botpress in the chatbot program.
I also used PostgreSQL for the database for the project, and I used pgAdmin4 to change data and insert data into the database using SQL queries. The PostgreSQL database is used to store information about the products and services offered at the mechanic shop, such as the name of the service, the price, a description of what it is, a category, and the amount which a customer will get for the price. I used pgAdmin to put in data, which I collected from the Walmart auto parts and mechanic website. I used Microsoft Visual Studio Code for my IDE. I saved and backed up my code from Visual Studio at regular intervals using Github. Before I started to make the code, I used Google Drawings to make a flow chart which showed how I wanted the conversation process to go.
### Files:
The app.py file is the main Python file for the API. When the API is called, it connects to the app.py file. First, it imports information from the other Python files. The program initializes the API through the use of Flask and configures the development and production environment settings by using the development and production environment configurations from the config.py file. It then creates the URL prefix of “api/v1/services” which can be included after the local IP address to access the API from Botpress.
The manage.py file is for moving data from the Python files to the PostgreSQL database and vice versa. It is important for accessing the service information which is in the PostgreSQL database. The ServiceModel.py file creates a class which is used for storing data from the database. This class is a model of the table in the database which stores information about the different services which are offered by the mechanic shop. It has a class variable for each of the columns in the database table. Additionally, the class contains various functions which can be used to create, retrieve, update, and delete data from the table in the database. For this project, the most important function is the function that can be used to retrieve all of the data from the services table in the database.
Pipfile shows packages that have been imported and installed for this project. For this project, the packages which I imported included flask-migrate, flask-script, marshmallow, flask, flask-sqlalchemy, and psycopg2-binary. flask-migrate was used in the manage.py file to help with moving information to and from the services database. flask-script was used for the same purpose. marshmallow was used in the ServiceModel.py file to create the model of the services database table in Python. psycopg2 was a module which I used for testing to make sure that the Python file was connecting to the services database.
The run.py file is used to start running the API. It imports the create_app function from the app.py file to initialize the API. The \_\_init\_\_.py file in the models folder is used to initialize the connection to the database in SQLAlchemy to connect to the actual PostgreSQL database.
The ServiceView.py file defines functions that are used to retrieve data from the database. The file imports the model from the ServiceModel.py file and uses the previously defined functions from the ServiceModel class. The program can also detect if an error has occurred in one of the functions in the ServiceView.py file.
config.py is used to set up the development and production environments and to store the URL for the database. It creates a class with information for each of the development and production environments and then creates a dictionary containing both of the classes.
### Links:
The video demonstration for the chatbot project can be found at this link:
https://youtu.be/TTDy1XMcV7k
I used this API tutorial for help:
https://www.codementor.io/@olawalealadeusi896/restful-api-with-python-flask-framework-and-postgres-db-part-1-kbrwbygx5
I also used the documentation for the Flask-SQLAlchemy module:
https://flask-sqlalchemy.palletsprojects.com/en/2.x/